Add section about candidate genes (#1123)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/09.evolution.md

If not addressed, economic and environmental stressors are likely to cause future zoonotic transfer of diseases in the future [@doi:10.1126/science.abc3189].

### Whom Does It Affect?

#### Genetic Contributors to Susceptibility

> Throughout the pandemic, many hypotheses have been raised about factors that might make individuals more susceptible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout the pandemic, many hypotheses have been raised about factors that might make individuals more susceptible to infection or disease.
```

Many risk factors, such as underlying health conditions, are related to the body's inflammatory response, as we review elsewhere [@individual-inequality].
Here, we focus narrowly on genetic bases of differences in susceptibility or outcomes.
In the past, the identification of genetic risk factors for a disease often followed a candidate gene approach, where a gene of interest was evaluated to identify variants that showed an association with the outcome of interest.
While economical in terms of sequencing, this approach is prone to spurious results.<!--add citation-->

> Today, in the age of next-generation sequencing, a common approach is instead to conduct genome-wide scans, where a large number of single-nucleotide variants (SNPs) are evaluated to identify regions of the genome associated with differences in a phenotype.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, in the age of next-generation sequencing, a common approach is instead to conduct genome-wide scans, where a large number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or variants are evaluated to identify regions of the genome associated with differences in a phenotype.
```

> Genome-wide association scans (GWAS) in particular are a popular approach that employs this strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in particular are a popular approach that employs this strategy.
```

During COVID-19, both of these paradigms have been applied to the problem of identifying genetic correlates of disease severity.

##### Candidate-Gene Approaches

Many candidate genes have been investigated throughout the pandemic.
An early study (published in April 2020) investigated a known variant in interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (_IFITM3_) among hospitalized patients in Beijing [@doi:10.1093/infdis/jiaa224].
This gene and variant were selected because of a prior candidate gene study by some of the same authors that found an association with influenza severity among Chinese patients during the 2009 influenza A H1N1/09 pandemic [@doi:10.1038/ncomms2433].
Here, they evaluated a small number (n=80) hospitalized COVID-19 patients to determine whether homozgyosity for the previously identified risk allele was associated with mild versus severe disease [@doi:10.1093/infdis/jiaa224].

> Their analysis revealed an association between the SNP and severe COVID-19 outcomes. <!--the in-line stats are different than the table? are the in line

Reviewer: Strangely the significant one p<0.001 appears to be in a supplementary figure... is that what you are looking for...?

Author: Yes!!! Thank you, you're amazing. I'll see if I can figure out what they did! Also, if my view of candidate gene studies is too harsh, I'm happy to dial it back :laughing: For behavior genetics, they have a horrible legacy.

> Their analysis revealed an association between the SNP and severe COVID-19 outcomes. <!--the in-line stats are different than the table? are the in line
>  stats for a model that didn't include age? because it's not significant in the table-->

Author: ```suggestion
They stated that they found an association between homozygosity for the SNP of interest and the severity of COVID-19. 
```
OK I actually still can't make sense of their statement that P <.0001; OR, 6.37 because that is definitely not in table 2 (which they reference there!) I think something got left out of the paper. Not totally sure how to handle that, but hopefully this works.
